hi i'm dr k uh i'm a harvard trained
psychiatrist and we're doing something a
little bit different from interviews
today
uh viewers from our discord and
subreddit submitted problems that
they're going through and i'm going to
try to help them out
and today's theme is about relationships
if you guys want to join in next time
our uh join our discord and post
scenarios in the channel
ask dr k there's also cool stuff on the
discord like a meditation group people
supporting each other's mental health
and also um you know people are
are crushing it in league and other
games and for real like we offer a ton
of workshops
um this is all community driven from
everywhere from baking to coding
uh we have like a room cleaning group
that meets once a week to kind of clean
stuff up
so it's it's really a place for people
to work on themselves and acquire new
skills and support each other so
uh feel free to join our discord and
maybe submit some questions
okay so good afternoon dr k i'm a guy
and i'm wondering how i can get better
how can i better understand and
communicate my feelings of attraction
to another close guy friend he's been
one of my best friends for just about
four years now
and we've even spoken about mutual
attraction it always
ends up feeling like we've just missed
each other i care for him deeply but
it's
been confusing and painful as well as
vague as
that all is i would love to hear your
thoughts on what attraction is
uh what different forms are there about
the shame that so often can come with
being gay and all
that can entail with a close and all
that can entail with a close guy friend
really good question okay this is a
little bit tricky so let's start with
this so
the first thing that i like about this
question is that i think it's a very
well framed question so
as we start to think a little bit about
you know how do we approach
problems as we say a lot on stream good
diagnosis precedes good treatment
and so how do you find the right
diagnosis
by like asking the right question or
ordering the right test
right so like let's take a step back and
think about how should we approach
challenges in our life so the first
thing we should do is understand our
challenges but even before we understand
challenges we have to understand how to
understand challenges
and so in medicine you know they teach
us like the art of diagnosis which is
all about asking the right questions or
ordering the right tests
so what i really like about this
question is actually this first part
over here
which is i'm wondering how can i better
understand and
communicate my feelings of attraction so
the first thing you've got to do is
better understand your feelings of
attraction
okay so
and then before you communicate them
you've got to understand kind of where
you are and you don't have to understand
everything fully
but but in order to communicate
effectively you have to understand
effectively and so let's
um let's think a little bit about this
so i also like that
that you know this person has multiple
shades of feeling which is probably
closer to the truth
than like one directional so we see this
a lot where people will say
i'm deeply deeply in love with someone
and like what they'll say is like it's
all like
one directional and it's very intense
and that oftentimes gets people into
trouble
when all they sort of recognize is one
shade of color in terms of their
internal environment
um and so you know it's interesting
because it sounds like you care about
him a lot
it sounds like um you know
you care about him as a friend uh
frankly it sounds like you could be in
love dude
um and so you know i think it's
important to just ask yourself that
question like am i in love like you do
you know what it's
like to be in love if not this really
could be it
and that it's confusing and painful as
well so i think it's really good that
you sort of understand all those
different parts about
himself i mean yourself
and so um
[Music]
and it sounds like you guys have kind of
like even
gotten into the discussion a little bit
right so it says we've spoken about
mutual attraction
and it always ends up feeling like we've
missed each other so that i think is an
important feeling so i
i wonder if what's going on here is that
like the two of you actually
are interested or do have some kind of
romantic feelings for each other but
that
neither of you feels comfortable enough
to like put yourself
out on a limb and risk like ruining the
friendship
to see if there's more to your
relationship
and i i could sort of imagine that like
you know
your friend could be feeling exactly the
same way which is that you guys are
really
really good friends your your friendship
matters a lot
to you it matters a lot to him that
there's
it sounds like you guys have sort of
talked about being attracted to each
other
um and then neither of you has been
willing to sort of like
step into that vulnerable space and say
like hey
do you want to actually try something
here um
and so you know i think the way to
approach this
is first of all to understand like what
do you really feel about him is are
you you know or because it's possible to
be
really good friends with someone and
physically attracted to them
but like not have a romantic component
right so like we see that in platonic
relationships all the time where like
you may be attracted
to you know someone of the opposite sex
assuming you're heterosexual
and you guys could be really good
friends but like you guys wouldn't
actually like
be a good relationship or there isn't
actually a romantic feeling
um and so that's possible so i think the
first thing to figure out is you know
just ask yourself
and it's like one of these gut checks
right like am i
secretly in love with this person and
i'm just scared to admit it
and if the answer is yes then i don't
know that i would go about sharing that
directly with the person but i think
probably the best way to approach this
is to have a conversation
and say you know hey i care about you a
lot
as a friend and i find myself being
attracted to you and i feel like
we keep on missing each other and maybe
there's a chance for
a relationship but i also value your
friendship and i
i don't i kind of don't want to risk
that and then
ask an open-ended question what do you
think about that
so this is something that we often teach
our coaches which is that like they'll
come to me with a question
and they'll say i have a client who
um you know it feels like like i had a
case the other day so one of the coaches
had a little bit of trouble with this it
was kind of talking it through and they
said that
you know i have a client who kind of
came in and wanted to work on a goal
but um you know the goal is like
something that's really painful for them
so i'm not really sure
like how to talk about it because any
time we sort of bring it up like my
client gets emotional and i'm not sure
like what to do
so it seems like talking about it is
hurtful to them but at the same time
that's what they're here to to work on
so these negative emotions come to the
surface and i don't know what to do
and what i would tell that coach or what
i did tell that coach is that's exactly
what you should say to your client
right say hey like i know you're here to
work on this but
every time we kind of bring it up like
it seems painful for you which is
exactly why you want to work on it but
at the same time i sort of feel like i
don't know if i should push you or not
because it seems like it hurts and i
don't want to
say anything that's going to be like
hurtful to you and at the same time we
have to work on it so kind of
enroll them in your decision-making
process right so like too much about
what what problems we run into in
relationships is like when one person
makes
all the decisions right so what i mean
by that is like a good example of this
is like friend zoning
where or girlfriend zoning right where
like one person
all on their own builds up all these
thoughts and feelings and hopes and
dreams
and you're all like in your mind you
like create this whole
world about who this other person is and
you fall in love with that person and
all the wonderful and it's like all in
your head and the other person doesn't
have any like say so in what you create
in your mind
it's not like a mutual relationship that
you've created and i know that sounds
weird that we you know aren't all
relationships mutual no
right sometimes we create all these
relationships in our head that are
sort of like solo relationships and you
build up all these like ideas about who
this person is like you meet this girl
and she's nice to you and you're like oh
my god she's the one
and so what i think you should do is
like let your friend be a part of this
process right so like tell him like hey
man this is what's going on with me
i value your friendship i feel like i'm
attracted to you
we've kind of touched on it before but
like you know i feel like we keep on
missing each other and i'm not sure if
this is worth exploring or not
what do you think because the foundation
of a successful relationship
absolutely is communication because it's
like two people
right so you've got to like work with
them and if you want it to work
i think a good way to start like a good
solid foundation for a relationship is
like the tui all sitting down and
deciding
hey do we want to try this or not is
there something here or not
and recognize that you yourself are
going to be afraid of rejection
right and that you don't want to like so
like
kind of notice that too but it sounds
like you guys have gotten close for
been close for a while and you all have
been friends for four years so
you know a little bit of rejection can
hurt but hopefully it won't
you know torpedo the relationship that
i've never really heard of
um you know i've never heard of a
relationship
where one person sort of explores their
feelings with the other person and the
relationship just crumbles apart after
four years
i've certainly heard about relationships
where you catch feelings for someone
and then you are deeply in love and then
like you guys used to be friends but now
you're deeply in love and that sort of
falls apart because
you can't be friends with them anymore
because of your feelings but
you know i don't know if we're here if
that's what this scenario is
so i'd say overall you know the way to
approach it is just to have a
conversation where you basically say
exactly what you said to me
and what you post the way you posted
your question and then you explore it
with your friend and you guys kind of
figure it out together
as vegas that all is i would love to
hear your thoughts on what attraction is
what different forms are there and about
shame that so often comes with being gay
and all that can entail with a close guy
friend
okay let's talk about what what
attraction is
i mean i'm not an expert in this but
i'll toss out a couple of different
ideas right so one is like physical
attraction
um and that's just like you're
physically attracted to someone
someone's
you know the way that they look or
something about them like appeals to you
sort of like on a
physical and biological level
then there's also you know more of like
emotional attraction so as you get to
know
someone and this happens a lot with men
so
you know as as you start to express
emotional intimacy
men are rarely taught to express
emotional
intimacy outside of like very close
nuclear
intimate relationship so you may express
emotional intimacy towards your parents
maybe your siblings and then like the
other thing
other place that you express emotional
intimacy is with
romantic partners so sometimes what can
happen is emotional intimacy can get
confused as attraction
and and what i mean by that is that like
if if you have a female friend
and you guys are emotionally kind of
intimate with each other
and we hear this a lot from you know
bitter dudes on the internet where they
say like i was there for all of her
emotional needs
and then she friend zoned me and it's
like yeah that's sort of
that's sort of true but i think the
confusing thing there is that like
for a lot of women and i'm just sort of
using the kind of heteronormative
average person here so women are taught
to be emotionally
intimate outside of romantic
relationships and men are not
so like what what being emotionally
intimate with a woman sort of entitles
you to is not
necessarily a romantic relationship but
you to be emotionally intimate with them
without a romantic relationship which
can be really confusing for us because
we're not taught
how to like do that right it's kind of
confusing for us
so um you know i think there's there's
an emotional attraction which can grow
into love but oftentimes is confused
with sort of emotional intimacy
and then uh you know the third thing
that i'll say i know we don't really
talk about this much because it's not
very scientific um
is is i i do think that there's like a
spiritual attraction so just my personal
experience has been like i fell deeply
in love with i didn't understand what it
was but
i felt deeply in love with my wife like
literally the first time i saw her and i
didn't even understand what i was
feeling like
i remember i still remember the moment
where i was like walking
outside and i was walking past a picnic
bench and she was like walking the other
way and i i just saw her
and it felt like someone had slammed me
in the chest
and it was just a weird [ __ ] feeling
and like i didn't understand what the
[ __ ] happened
and then like i didn't even talk to her
for three years like i didn't know who
she was it was just like
i don't know what that was that was
weird
um and and so
you know i i i do sort of like believe
in this weird destiny kind of crap like
i know it's not scientific i know it
doesn't make a whole lot of sense
i know it's old-fashioned but my own
experience has just been
so altering that like i do believe in
that
i mean it's weird um but i i do sort of
you know think that that's an important
thing to acknowledge whether it's
real or not i don't really know i i
still don't know
you know whether it's real um but i
think that if we're trying to understand
the lenses to view attraction through
it's important to acknowledge that
some people do have experiences where
they feel like
their attraction to another person is
like
destiny or fate or like whatever that
they were like destined to be together
and there's only one person in the world
for them and we see that
in our stories right like they're like
all these hopeless romantics out there
and so there's something about the human
condition where people interpret it that
way i'm not saying that it's like
cosmically true what i'm saying is that
if you look at human behavior that's
something that you
have to acknowledge right you have to
acknowledge that people consistently
have this experience
and that this is like an archetype that
runs through our stories and our history
as human beings
so i think that there is that sort of
spiritual kind of attraction
and then i'd also say that like this is
where things get really confusing
because a lot of times
what happens is we feel that emotional
intimacy
and we kind of confuse emotional
for that faded love right and that gets
really tricky because how do you
understand what the difference is and
then the short answer there is that i
think the more tranquil your mind
the more you'll be able to differentiate
is this some kind of attachment that i
have that's out of proportion or is this
like actually like destiny
that we're supposed to be together and i
think the more
calm you are and the more detached you
are
the better you're going to be at telling
which one is which
and then the last thing which i just
want to touch on because it's like sort
of a neuroscience take on it
is i just want to talk to you guys a
little bit about oxytocin because i
think this is an important part of
attraction
so oxytocin um is a hormone that sort of
deals with emotional bonding
so for example uh you know there
are a lot of hormones that lead to milk
production for
new mothers and then oxytocin is the
hormone that facilitates
something called milk letdown and what
that means is that when a child is ready
to feed there's actually milk in the
breast and then like
there's like a release valve when when a
child nurses that causes the milk
to kind of like go you know
leave the breast right so to be consumed
by the child
and so that hormone is actually oxytocin
so oxytocin governs milk letdown
and along with that comes a lot of
emotional bonding so
oxytocin
you know i i know that this is a
terrible thing to bring up but it's like
come on chat just run with me get like
you know stay with me for a minute okay
like let's not make boob jokes okay
so oxytocin is also like the hugging
hormone so oxytocin is a hormone that
facilitates
emotional bonding and comes from things
like cuddling
so oxytocin also improves our mood and
like
improves like emotional relationships um
there are actually some trials which
have found that have tried to test
intranasal oxytocin for people with
schizophrenia to see if they can like
form
better social interactions turns out the
trials really didn't
show a whole lot of benefit but the idea
is that
you know sometimes people with
schizophrenia have trouble forming like
social relationships
and so some people hypothesize that it's
like kind of an oxytocin deficiency so
if we supplement oxytocin
will they be able to form relationships
turns out clinically it doesn't seem to
help much
but the theory is sort of there and we
know that oxytocin is sort of related
to um emotional bonding
and i don't know if you guys like cuddle
with stuff right so i know there's going
to be a lot of
you know pepe hands here but even like a
cat or a dog
or you know like kids like so i have
kids and i enjoy like cuddling with my
kids
and what happens is like when you do
that like literally you get
you know oxytocin being released like
when you hold your child and you rock
them to sleep and stuff like that you
get oxytocin release
um and oxytocin forms emotional bonds
with like other human beings so whenever
you get an oxytocin spurt
whoever is around you you're gonna feel
like emotionally bonded to
and the reason i think this is important
is because nowadays we have a lot of
like
fluid relationships that are forming and
i think they cause
i have yet to really see an open
relationship that i would say is like
very successful and lasts for a long
time
um i'm not saying there's anything wrong
with open relationships it's just
you know i've worked with a lot of
people who have been in them and i think
something that happens when you start
having like friends with benefits and
stuff like that is that a lot of times
things will get muddy like it's really
it's a really hard tight rope to walk
and i think part of the reason for that
is that you know when you engage in
sexual activity with someone
your brain is going to be like hey like
let's bond with this person like this
person i'm going to start caring about
them
so it's almost like a hormone-mediated
like boost
in how much how emotionally invested you
are in someone
and so you know i think that there's
also like a component of
let's forget about physical attraction
let's forget about emotional attraction
or spiritual attraction
and let's just acknowledge that if you
have you know a sexual relationship with
someone
or now i also hear that there are people
who are professional cuddlers
that um you're probably going to start
to f form
emotional bonds with these people even
if you sort of don't
want to and on the fr flip side you know
if
that's oftentimes what happens is even
if you don't form the emotional bond
baby the person that you're physically
like
you know sexually engaged with could
start forming bonds with you and that's
just it's sort of neuroscience
it's kind of how we're wired we're wired
to be emotionally invested
in the people that we have sex with
last thing is so talking about the shame
about
that so often comes with being gay and
um
yeah i mean you know i i
i don't mean to be insensitive but like
i don't really understand that right
because like my experience as a
heterosexual male
was that like i don't really understand
what it's like to have
i've worked with a lot of gay people
i've worked with a lot of transgender
people
um i've helped them sort of find their
sexual identity and
and and sort of like you know i've
helped them through that process but i
got to be honest with you it's one of
the things that i understand the least
like i don't
you know i feel like i have a good
understanding of a lot of stuff but when
it comes to
a sexual identity like i've got a rubric
that i i sort of help people
work through um so i've sort of figured
out like
from almost like a stimulus response
kind of way like from like a testing
hypothesis way
how to help those people through those
journey and i feel confident in being
able to do it
but i also want to acknowledge that i
actually don't know what it's like
emotionally
you know to have a sexuality or identity
that
is generally speaking faces a lot of
judgment
and a lack of acceptance and confusion
by society
and this is where i'd say that you know
and i'm sorry to say i just
you know this is not something that i
understand i wish i did i really do
but i i feel like i would be doing you a
disservice if i wasn't honest about
saying i don't
know what it's like to be gay i don't
know like i said i've helped people
through it but i still don't really know
what their experience is like
it's sort of like i've helped deliver
babies but i don't know what it's like
to be pregnant
i don't know what it's like to go
through childbirth like i just don't
know
and what i would say is that like you
know if you do have shame with
with being gay and stuff like try to
find communities
we're actually thinking about starting
um you know
topic specific groups and and healthy
gamer and
one of them may be sort of around
navigating gender identity and sexuality
so um you know we'll keep you guys
posted about that but i think like it's
really helpful to
be with other people who are going
through your journey you don't
necessarily
need to have answers from someone who's
gone through it and knows all
knows everything it can be enough to be
with other people who are just
as confused as you are and you guys kind
of like work through it together which
is really what we've seen in group
coaching
okay dear dr k my name is amelia
and i'm a 23 year old introvert who has
never had a boyfriend girlfriend and
probably never will at this rate
i feel so stuck in this constant loop of
feeling like i'll
never find love or even experience it i
look around me at my friends or even
siblings
and they have never suffered from this
problem is there something wrong with me
is there something i didn't learn or
miss out on
why am i so out of the loop everyone
around me is either in a relationship
they have kids they are married
almost everyone has at least experienced
love once before in their lives
i feel like such a loser it's so
embarrassing to even think about
i've never even kissed anyone and let
alone anything further than that
it hurts when you realize you've been
missing out on these things in your life
things that everyone experiences i want
something real i just want i just want
that feeling of being happy with someone
but also knowing that i make someone
else happy
what is pulling me back so much i feel
like i just sabotaged myself
anytime i get any hopeful opportunity ah
see good
our community is evolving chat like
they're starting to be reflective
so this is what i want to say like i
just want to pause for a second
this first half we've heard a lot
right we hear this a lot it's awesome
that this person gives us the second
paragraph we haven't even read it yet
but like do you guys see how this person
is setting up the question
and then they're already exploring a
hypothesis so this is awesome i
actually feel really hopeful for amelia
at this point i know it sounds weird
but just the fact that like you know
you're starting to
it's okay to have problems in life it's
okay to ask questions in life
and then taking that next step to start
to figure out like let me at least think
about this like what have i observed
what have i noticed that's ultimately
the strategy that i think leads to
success
so let's see what they have to say i
feel like i just sabotaged myself
anytime i get any hopeful opportunity
i've been asked out on dates but i've
never actually
been or gone to one
okay i get so scared and anxious that
something will happen to me
and i end and i end up making excuse or
cancelling
i feel guilty if i'm even if i even
think about accepting the date
i feel guilty that i would be wasting
this person's time if i did accept and
ended up not seeing them again
i'm extremely scared of even the thought
of getting into a relationship with
someone or even trying to
i feel like since i've gone this long
without finding someone if i did get
into a relationship with someone
then it would have to be perfect but i
never even give it a chance or even try
i have this impending doom that i will
be taken advantage of and be used
i just don't understand what makes me do
this or feel this way
i yearn for a real relationship so much
and wonder
how it feels to experience but my head
automatically tells me otherwise
that it will never happen and if it did
happen that it would go wrong
i tell myself that i'm happy being alone
and single but deep down i know i'm not
i just need help and guidance on how to
love and trust again
damn this is a good question chat
so this is interesting right so like
let's look at the language
first so i want you guys to notice
um the extremities of this person's
thinking
so uh never had a boyfriend
probably never constant
never
never everyone
almost everyone
never sabotage myself
anytime i've never
okay
have to be perfect never even give it a
chance
impending doom sort of qualifies i think
automatically never
so this is interesting right because
they say i just need help and guidance
on how to love and trust
again now we could be i could be making
a mountain out of a molehill
here right so like when i see all these
nevers
i would imagine that the last sentence
should say i just need
help and guidance on learning how to
love and trust
right so that that's what you would
expect like if someone has never done
anything before
then you would expect them like that
they don't it's not that they lost
something it's that they never had it
but what i'm hearing here is that i just
need help and
and guidance on how to love and trust
again
and this sort of makes sense with me
because we have i have a running
hypothesis here that
something happened to this person right
so like all these thoughts and feelings
that they have that
you know they clearly want this and yet
something in their mind is telling them
that like they get really scared or
anxious they feel like they're not going
to live up to the other person's time
they feel like they
if they did accept they have to be
perfect they have to commit
that the first date is the person that
they have to spend the rest of their
life with
so then the question becomes like where
do these thoughts and beliefs and
feelings come from
and and my guess would be that there's
something that happened
potentially traumatic to this person
like early on
where you know they got taught in some
way shape or form that they're different
that they aren't worth it that they're
not good enough that they have to be
perfect
that and the interesting thing here is
like needing to be perfect
is about not being yourself right like
why does someone need to be perfect if
you guys feel like you need to be
perfect
if you really tunnel down into that what
you see is that
needing to be perfect has can only be
true
if what you are is not worth much
right so what this really comes down to
is where did this person
learn that they're not worth much
like where did this person lose their
self-esteem and lose
their confidence in themselves so they
can't afford to be themselves right do
you guys get that like that what this
person is saying is that
i can't afford to be me i can't be
myself
it has to be like this way that i see
everywhere around me
people are in all these perfect
relationships and i'm not because
there's something fundamentally wrong
with me
and we can kind of see it here because
like you know
they've never suffered from this problem
like so first of all i don't think
that's true
is there something wrong with me like
that's what this person feels right this
is
this is a question that is born out of
an emotion
is there something i didn't learn or
miss out on why am i so out of the loop
so like this is
that's the question you've got to answer
right so so the way i'd approach this if
you guys feel stuck
with something like this in life and
this is what we
we do with people by the way um so i
think like this actually is a great
person for
for group coaching this is a great group
coaching candidate so concretely what
i'd say amelia is that you should think
about signing up for group coaching
because and here's why so like the
problem is that that this person thinks
that they're alone
right like that i'm the only one who's
ever experienced this like this is only
me
and so what happens is they they show up
and they say like since this is a
problem that no one else suffers from
you know i want to do personal coaching
and i think one of the personal coaching
is great don't get me wrong but i think
one of the most
valuable lessons this person can learn
is when they show up in a group
and they say this everyone else is like
oh [ __ ] this is exactly like me
and then you have 10 people who all feel
this way that there's something
fundamentally busted with them
that the rest of the world is normal and
that like i'm
messed up in some way or i like missed
that day of class where you learn how to
have a relationship
and then there's there's a value to that
like sure you can work with a personal
coach about the origin of your feelings
and stuff but
there's a value to realizing like oh
[ __ ]
this is actually like there are other
people who work through this
and then something really cool starts to
happen because then you guys can work on
it together right
and then you guys can kind of explore
with each other and you haven't figured
amelia hasn't figured this picture out
but she's figured out pieces do you guys
get this like
here are the here's the questions here's
a hypothesis
and then when you get eight people who
form eight hypotheses and you guys kind
of work them together
then you get like an answer floats to
the surface
and so my first thought emilia is like
you should sign up for group coaching
and bring this to your group and see
what they have to say about it
second thing is i'll tell you like what
you know what i would do if i was
running this group
is i'd asked you like when did you start
like did you always feel like you were
different did you always feel like you
were out of the loop or
did your feeling of being out of the
loop start at a particular point
and the really tricky thing here is that
when i asked when did it start
a lot of people assume that it has to be
like
a large traumatic event
like they just assumed that like oh no
nothing like super traumatic no that's
not how it works
it's usually a very very small and
seemingly insignificant thing
but when you're young when you're like
five or six
um and and like something happens to you
like you start this like the seed is
planted in your mind that you're
different
and then what happens is that seed gets
watered by like small experience after
small experience after a small
experience
and then it even gets further watered
when you look around and as a cognitive
bias starts to form in your mind and
then you look around
and you start making these statements
like they have never never suffered from
this problem
that's not true right like it's just not
true but that's what your mind tells you
and then what happens is you start to
have a lens through which you look at
the world
and the more that you look at the world
through this lens the more it reinforces
your core belief about yourself and then
you're giving it a lot of water
a lot of water and then it's growing and
it's growing and it's growing and it's
big
and it feels huge it feels like this
insurmountable problem
and then you have to so what you have to
do is you really have to go back and try
to figure out like where did you start
to feel this way about yourself
right where did you when did you start
to learn that you are
different and that other people you know
learned
learned something that you didn't learn
that you're broken in some way
that some some part of your brain just
isn't working
and so i think the more that you kind of
explore that you'll begin to realize
that like
that feeling is like a holdover or an
echo from a past experience it's not
necessarily true today
but what's happening is like each of
these experiences forms a little bit of
an echo in your mind
and then after a thousand of these
experiences you've got this cacophony
that feels really overwhelming in your
mind and dominates your thinking
but the funny thing is that all of the
energy for those echoes if you stop
feeding it it'll actually all die out
right in order to have that sustained
echo you have to create new sounds
and so this is where you've got to kind
of explore where that comes from
and the second thing is that you know i
would really consider
exploring your feelings when you do get
asked out
because like this is important i get so
scared and anxious that something will
happen to me and i make up
i end up making an excuse canceling so
when we approach problems
like our you know my approach to
problems healthy gamer approach problems
one is to find the root and one is to
work in the present
so recognize that like you can ignore
the root of this
if you can learn a little bit more about
how to not
let your feelings control your behaviors
and so it doesn't matter what you think
or you believe or you feel
the the basic problem here it sort of
doesn't matter whether you feel like
you're overweight so you're anorexic and
you don't eat food
or you feel like you're overweight and
so you're refused to socialize with
other people
i had anxious thoughts about my growth
today and i was like should i shave and
i was like ah
what right so we all have thoughts and
feelings that prompt us to things
i thought about cancelling stream
because i can't shave right now
and i was afraid of how i would look and
so you can have these feelings that can
cause you to want certain behaviors
and then understanding in that moment
how do you
like what is this feeling that like
is is so strong that you want to make up
an excuse or cancel
and then in my experience what happens
is um as you tunnel down
into your emotion in the present
the more carefully you look at it the
more you realize that it's not
based on a solid foundation that it's
sort of like this feeling
in and of itself it's like a
self-contained entity and it's not
really based on like
something real which i know feels really
strange
because the feeling itself is real but
the more that you look into it the more
that you tunnel down into it the more
you're going to realize
that the the emotion is like an entity
of its own that's
pushing you to do something but it's
actually not like reality it's just your
emotion
right that's what happens when you're
like emotions make you feel like things
are real
even though they're not and a good
example of this for people who are
severely depressed
they have this feeling that they're
worthless and that
their like children would be better off
if they weren't alive
which is a crazy thought and is
absolutely untrue
but in that moment that person
feels like that thought is absolutely
true and you have to dig
into that thought you have to dig into
that feeling until you begin to realize
actually hold on a second of course my
kids love me
of course they would be better off if i
was here
but you're not going to realize that
until you dig into that feeling in the
moment
and so i'd say is try to find the root
and the second thing is you know try to
figure out like what's going on
in these moments where you pull back
and as best as you can try to let
yourself
not pull back and choose the kind of
path that feels painful to you in
in that in that mode right like
even if you you know because there are a
lot of thoughts and feelings here which
with i think which i think are really
like cognitive distortions like if i did
get into a relationship with someone
then it would have to be perfect no it
doesn't there's no such thing
you know like
and some of this stuff is some of these
fears are born of lack of experience
it's sort of like
you know if you've never been in the
like if you've never been in a swimming
pool you may be afraid that you're gonna
drown the second your foot goes into the
water and it's sort of a reasonable
thought even though it's like not true
but like you just haven't done it yet so
you're not really sure
and so acknowledge for a moment that
like you actually
are inexperienced so a lot of your
conclusions are likely to be wrong
and and just kind of work through that
stuff but i think there's really two
angles here one is to
um you know really try to figure out
where you got these thoughts or feelings
and the second
is fine they're here now how can you
start to work on not letting them
control you
and very practically i'd say that
meditation is a very good tool to start
to explore yourself
i think if you want to see a therapist
i'd highly recommend cognitive
behavioral therapy
in in this case like try that out if you
haven't tried it already
because cognitive behavioral therapy
helps you understand the relationship
between your thoughts
your emotions and your behaviors
third thing that you can do is sign up
for group coaching
because i think you'll be surprised to
learn that you're not that
alone um and then
that other people will help you work
through this
and i think the other really important
thing that that i like
a lot about group is that there's a lot
of value which i think we
underestimate to being able to help
someone else
and so you know what amelia really needs
more than anything else is to have
someone else in group
who feels similarly to what she does and
and amelia needs to
help this person right help this person
find confidence
and that in of itself is going to give
her the most confidence
okay two other thoughts one is
but my head automatically tells me
otherwise so this is important
because what i want amelia to understand
is that this is not actually you
right so do you guys see how sometimes
she uses the first person
and sometimes she uses the third person
to talk about her head
and that's what i mean that this emotion
is like a separate thing
it's not actually the real you it's like
some some scar
it's a samskar or like some automatic
programming some malware
in your cognition that tells you
otherwise it's just like some [ __ ]
malware
that's like sending you pop-ups it's not
actually you
and so that understanding and the more
that you begin to realize that
the more freedom you're gonna gain from
it okay
the second thing is i want you guys to
notice how future focused amelia is
like she's paralyzed in the present
because so much of the future is
determined by the now
if she goes out with someone it would be
a waste of time if she ended up not
seeing them again
if she goes out with someone she has to
be perfect for the rest of her life
it's like she's putting she's the weight
of a perfect future is being weighed
in her mind against the present
and so how is she expected to
right so i want you guys to be really
careful when you do this this is a
really important point
don't weigh the future against the
present don't do it
because when you weigh the entirety of a
future
against the present moment the future is
always going to win
so like i i we we had a question or
something someone was talking about
you know being 27 and and wanting to
finish college
and they were like thinking about like
how embarrassing it would like in in the
moment when they're trying to think
about okay
should i re-enroll in college i'm 27
years old
and in that moment what they're doing is
they're weighing all of the future
of that right like if i go to college
i'm going to be older than everyone
i may be the same age as like my
teaching assistants and they're like all
of these future things that they're
thinking about
i'm going to be like a 29 year old
college graduate it's going to be so
embarrassing and they they pile on all
of these future
possibilities pile and pile and pile and
pile
and then like that gets weighed against
the present which is like do i just
ignore
my problems for a moment for one more
day and do i just queue up
for whatever i'm playing so anytime you
weigh the future against the present the
weight
of all of the future against the present
you're going to lose
you won't it's absolutely paralyzing
and so start by acknowledging that like
what you're doing today is just going on
a date
that's all it is is there gonna be
another date
who knows do you have to be perfect
who knows all you're doing is you're
meeting with someone
that's all you're doing because that's
literally all you're doing
and to really let go of the expectation
of everything in your mind about what
needs to happen
in the future or what is going to happen
in the future because you have no idea
you can't predict the future are you
psychic amelia
but that's what your mind tells you your
mind tells you oh my goodness
i know exactly what's going to happen
if you say yes to this person they're
going to take advantage of you
and you won't like them and you'll be
stuck in a relationship right so there's
another some scar here you guys are
paying attention
about her being stuck she's afraid of
being stuck
you guys see that why
why can't she get into a relationship
because she's afraid of being trapped
it may not be like low self-esteem so
one option is low self-esteem the other
route here is that
she may have gotten stuck with something
with someone a relationship that she
didn't want
oh oh man i'm so glad we found this one
i read this post on my on my um on on
the subreddit and i was tempted to
respond to it there
i love this this is a great post um and
i think this is the kind of thing that
we should
really think about having someone on
stream to sort of talk about this sort
of thing
um struggling between only fans or love
dating
i was lurker here for months awesome
thanks for posting
only fans or gf um
i'm seeking someone who can try to
understand me
cool welcome to our community my dude
i've noticed very kind and compassionate
replies here so i figured i should post
my story here hopefully you got
kind and compassionate replies and
didn't get a bunch of trolls but
i've been having a thing with only fans
girls for the last three years it
started after i was dumped by my
girlfriend when i was 21
it felt like it filled a hole in me
that's what only fans does
even though i'm aware the love is fake
it feels real
that's also a very good analysis
i can choose who will love me i can
choose to pause or leave my only fan's
girl
it's so much freedom and it felt real
enough but it has cost me
over 10k which is almost all i had in my
bank after working a lot at my father's
company during
my childhood i started dating a girl
recently and even though it
it's great it feels icky i want to
switch her
off sometimes i want to be able to
choose or date other women sometimes
i feel like i'd rather have the
shallowness of only fans than to feel
like i'm in a cage with one woman for
the rest of my life
i don't want to enter a relationship
with her and at the same time
have my only fans thing going on that
wouldn't be fair for the girl irl
but i just don't want to give up only
fans i'm working a lot during college to
be able to pay for it and it's worth it
it feels shameful since no one seems to
understand me
okay this is a fantastic post okay
so here's what i like about this post so
first of all
this is a real issue i was about to say
problem but i'm going to say issue
that a lot of people struggle with right
so like if we think about why is only
fans so popular
right it's because it makes people feel
a certain way
which they control it's a faucet of love
and all you have to do is pay for it
which is fine because that's what we do
for things that we like right
it's a faucet of love so
i really commend this person for coming
out of the woodwork because i think that
this is a
far bigger problem than people realize
precisely because it
is so shaming right so so like if
like if you try to talk to someone in
real life about this problem
boy are you going to get a ton of
judgment all you're going to get like no
one's going to help you they're just
going to
judge you and i
what i really like about the so first of
all
incredibly courageous to post this i
think it's going to make the world a
better place by posting this because
it's a problem that a lot of people
struggle with
um next thing that i really commend
about this post is that there's actually
a lot of really awesome insight
in here right like even though i'm aware
the love is fake it feels real
you know what you like about this i get
to choose who will love me
it's a lot of freedom and it felt real
enough
and then like even this person's dating
again and then like you recognize like
oh like
your brain is sort of like comparing the
real girl to the only fans girl and what
it's saying is like we're getting some
of the same stuff here
but i much prefer the situation where i
get to turn it off when i want to
um i want to be able to choose or date
other women sometimes
yes or that's another thing about only
fans right it's not exclusive
you get to have multiple faucets
and then this is this is i think the
really strong
sentence i feel like i'd rather have the
shallowness of only fans
than to feel like i'm in a cage with one
woman for the rest of my life
right it's really hard
to be really non-judgmental about your
feelings here and
that's what i think this is really great
about this post is the person is like
admitting he's like i know this sounds
really bizarre
and i know it sounds kind of like you
know shameful
but i actually like the shallowness
i don't want to give it up it actually
means something to me it's not like
they're
because usually what we see is like a
lot of self-judgment and blame and like
i i can't stop i really want to stop
you know like you know
you know like people are very judgmental
towards themselves whereas this person
says
this does something for me and i
actually really like it
and i'm going to admit to myself that i
really like it i don't
i just don't want to give it up
it's worth it right and this is what's
really important to understand
about like addictive and destructive
behaviors
is that like the reason we keep doing
them is because the payoff is huge
right when we think about an addiction
we think about it as a negative thing
but the one thing that has i think made
me the one lesson that has made me an
effective
addiction clinician an effective
addiction psychiatrist
is the acknowledgement the addiction
isn't a bad thing it's a good
thing it's a solution it's not a problem
right like the reason that an addiction
is so hard to kick is because it
takes your problems away
it's an escape it's like like imagine
how opi it is it's like god mode it's
like i have all these negative emotions
and feelings
and i feel like i'm a waste of space in
the universe
and i can drink this alcohol or i can
play this video game and boom
god mode all those feelings go away
and so like this it's hard to admit
that that the only fans means a lot to
you
but i think that's the first step right
the first thing you have to do is like
acknowledge your enemy
it's like back in the day when people
used to like bow before dueling like
this is what you guys need to do
if you guys are facing the problem the
first thing you need to do is respect it
bow because you're about to rumble
and it's like it's gonna be a tough
fight but respect it respect what the
only fans does for you
the next thing is that this person is
also falling into the trap so i don't
know if you guys caught this but we
we've already talked about this so
what's the principle here chat i feel
like i'd rather have the shallowness of
only fans than to feel like i'm in a
cage
with one woman for the rest of my life
what is this guy doing here
absolutely so
no wonder right all of the future
it's like if i give up only fans
i'm saddled with one person for 40 years
50 years 60 years 70 years
when if you really stop and ask this
person you know how do you do you want a
relationship like a loving relationship
for 40 50 60 years they may say yes to
that question we don't know
and so i think also this person's like a
decent dude because he
he realized i'm assuming that he's a man
but um
you know that he's trying to be fair to
the girl in real life
um and
yeah i mean i i think it's it's tough so
i think there are a couple of
principles here so the first is like you
know once again don't compare the
entirety of the future
to your present circumstance because
that's a battle you're never going to
win the future's always going to win
you don't have to date one person for
the rest of your life
so the other thing is like i don't know
if this person is dating exclusively
like this other person exclusively like
whoever their irl
girl is but like it's possible like you
know a lot of people will date
a couple of women at the same time to
figure out or a couple
women will date a couple of men whatever
or men will date a couple of men right
it's not like
there's still this idea of like going
steady or being exclusive which
nowadays is you know people understand
that sometimes you're
going on dates with multiple people so
that's
acceptable you know
and then i i i mean i think this person
is pretty far
along the way right i think that like
this is this is definitely something
where they understand
what only fans does for them like they
get it
it means a lot to them and i'm not going
to disagree
and so oddly enough i feel like this is
the kind of thing where this person has
demonstrated so much insight that i
think like
the next phase is actually questions i
don't really have a whole lot of advice
you know i'm not gonna say i mean i
think you should quit only fans because
i think it's like
what happens with the only fans is that
they've figured out
how to you know activate some parts of
your brain without
the rest of it so they figured out how
to make you feel like you have a
relationship without it
actually being a relationship
right so they scratch that positive itch
without some of the other stuff
so my concern for this person is that
you know the end of the day like if you
hurt your back
i don't think the only fans girls are
gonna come and like take care of you
and when i think about a relationship i
don't think about the positives i think
about
the negatives like the real advantage of
a relationship is like
when your chips are down i'm thinking
about sort of a committed monogamous
relationship that is
right when you're sick like who's gonna
take care of you
and the other thing is that you know i i
know that only fans is
you know it's like video and stuff right
like in pictures
but like i i don't know if people
actually you know not to be in delicate
but i don't know if people get laid
through only fans or not but like i
think actual physical connection
with another human being in a sexual way
is like an important part of life
and going back to the oxytocin so not
just sexual connection but like you know
being held and hugged and cared for like
all those things are important too
and so i think what you're doing is
you're investing a lot
into these online relationships that do
[Music]
absolutely
fill a hole and they do a good job of
doing it which is why it's so successful
but they're not going to fill the other
holes and the real problem here is that
when you fill one hole so completely
it's easy to forget about the other
holes
and then if we really think about
getting free of this the real question
is like you're not going to be free from
this curse
until you process the hole that was left
by the
first girlfriend when she broke up with
you
so if you really want to be free from
this that's what you have to fix
right because if she left a hole in your
heart you've got to patch up that hole
otherwise only fans girls are going to
keep filling it
once that hole is no longer there your
chances of being free from only fans are
a lot
better so i think the real question that
you need to ask yourself because he's
done a lot of
he's done a lot of introspection and
understanding about his feelings in the
now
the real question is like how did she
make you feel when she dumped you
and how do you overcome that because
when you get free of that then i think
the only fans will be easier to shed